In this lesson we're going to learn how to
create our
own user defined module, a user defined
module is just a python
program that we turn around and import
into another
python program so that we can use that
code that was defined in the module.
For this example, we're going to use the
Newton's method of approximating square
roots, that we demonstrated back in the
chapter on nested functions.
So the first thing I want to do, is I
want to create the program that's going to
store the module.
And we're gonna call that newton.py.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now I want to find the code that I used in
that example, the Newton method.
And that's in a program called
chap13ex1p2.py.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
And it's all of these functions right
here,
including that import statement to import
the math module.
I'm gonna copy that.
We'll close this, bring Newton back up,
and paste it in.
And that's all we have to do.
And notice that this is just a
program that contains nothing but function
definitions.
And that's all a module has to have.
Now, there can be more than that of
course, but there wouldn't be any
executable code, necessarily.
Generally speaking, the code in a module
will be
either a class definition, which we're
going to look
at later in the course, or functions that
we
want to be able to use in another program.
So let's save this.
And then let's start yet another program.
And we'll call this newtontest.py.
So the way we import a module that's user
defined, is we use a little bit different
syntax.
We write from newton import and in this
case we want to import all of
the functions, so in this case import star
or asterisk which just means to import
everything.
In the next lesson, I'm going to show you
how to only import those functions that
you need.
So now we're ready to go, so let's start a
program that will compute a square root.
So we're gonna enter a number and
that should display the square root, the
approximation.
Of the square root, using our Newton's
method.
So, let's save the program.
We're back to our Cmd Prompt window.
And let's run the code.
So we'll try nine.
And there we see that it printed the
approximation of the square root of nine.
So let's go back to our Newton test
program.
We also had a program called average.
So, just for fun, let's print the average
of two numbers.
We'll just pick two numbers at random.
So, let's save the program and let's run
newton test again.
We'll do the square root of 25.
And then the average of 144 and 9 is 76.5.
So, to summarize
the way we create a module is we simply
create a program.
In the program, we will create a set of
functions or other code that we want to
import later.
In this particular case it was just
functions.
Then to use the module we used this
syntax from Newton import star, which
means everything.
Then we can use the functions that come
from the
module just like they were defined in the
program itself.
So with that we're finished with this
lesson and we are ready to move on to
the next lesson, where I'm going to
demonstrate,
how to import only specified functions
from a module.